   I am a rather elderly man. The nature of my avocations for the last thirty years
has brought me into more than ordinary contact with what would seem an interesting
and somewhat singular set of men, of whom as yet nothing that I know of has ever
been written:—I mean the law-copyists or scriveners. I have known very many of
them, professionally and privately, and if I pleased, could relate divers histories,
at which good-natured gentlemen might smile, and sentimental souls might weep. But
I waive the biographies of all other scriveners for a few passages in the life of
Bartleby, who was a scrivener of the strangest I ever saw or heard of. While of 
other law-copyists I might write the complete life, of Bartleby nothing of that sort
can be done. I believe that no materials exist for a full and satisfactory biography
of this man. It is an irreparable loss to literature. Bartleby was one of those 
beings of whom nothing is ascertainable, except from the original sources, and in his
case those are very small. What my own astonished eyes saw of Bartleby, that is all
I know of him, except, indeed, one vague report which will appear in the sequel.

   Ere introducing the scrivener, as he first appeared to me, it fit I make some mention
of myself, my employees, my business, my chambers, and general surroundings; because
some such description is indispensable to an adequate understanding of the chief
character about to be presented.

   Imprimis: I am a man who, from his youth upwards, has been filled with a profound
conviction that the easiest way of life is the best. Hence, though I belong to a 
profession proverbially energetic and nervous, even to turbulence, at times, yet
nothing of that sort have I ever suffered to invade my peace. I am one of those 
unambitious lawyers who never addresses a jury, or in any way draws down public 
applause; but in the cool tranquility of a snug retreat, do a snug business among
rich men's bonds and mortgages and title-deeds. All who know me, consider me an 
eminently safe man. The late John Jacob Astor, a personage little given to poetic 
enthusiasm, had no hesitation in pronouncing my first grand point to be prudence;
my next, method. I do not speak it in vanity, but simply record the fact, that I was
not unemployed in my profession by the late John Jacob Astor; a name which, I admit,
I love to repeat, for it hath a rounded and orbicular sound to it, and rings like
unto bullion. I will freely add, that I was not insensible to the late John Jacob
Astor's good opinion.

    Some time prior to the period at which this little history begins, my avocations had
been largely increased. The good old office, now extinct in the State of New York, 
of a Master in Chancery, had been conferred upon me. It was not a very arduous office,
but very pleasantly remunerative. I seldom lose my temper; much more seldom indulge 
in dangerous indignation at wrongs and outrages; but I must be permitted to be rash 
here and declare, that I consider the sudden and violent abrogation of the office of 
Master in Chancery, by the new Constitution, as a—premature act; inasmuch as I had 
counted upon a life-lease of the profits, whereas I only received those of a few short 
years. But this is by the way.

My chambers were up stairs at No.—Wall-street. At one end they looked upon the white wall
of the interior of a spacious sky-light shaft, penetrating the building from top to
bottom. This view might have been considered rather tame than otherwise, deficient in
what landscape painters call "life." But if so, the view from the other end of my 
chambers offered, at least, a contrast, if nothing more. In that direction my windows 
commanded an unobstructed view of a lofty brick wall, black by age and everlasting shade;
which wall required no spy-glass to bring out its lurking beauties, but for the benefit 
of all near-sighted spectators, was pushed up to within ten feet of my window panes. Owing
 to the great height of the surrounding buildings, and my chambers being on the second 
floor, the interval between this wall and mine not a little resembled a huge square cistern.
